[DPE-3136][DPE-3137] Add dpe-workflows & poetry (#178)
canonical/opensearch-operator: CONTRIBUTING.md

- Please help us out in ensuring easy to review branches by rebasing your pull request branch onto
  the `main` branch. This also avoids merge commits and creates a linear Git commit history.

## Build charm

Build the charm in this git repository using tox.

There are two alternatives to build the charm: using the charm cache or not.
Cache will speed the build by downloading all dependencies from charmcraftcache-hub.

### Build Without Cache

To run the traditional build only using `charmcraft`, run the following command:

```shell
tox -e build-production
```

### Build With Cache

First, ensure you have the right dependencies:
* charmcraft v2.5.4+
* charmcraftcache

> By running the following commands:

Author: Keeping the `build-production` in a subsection "Build Without Cache", as this represents our final build that will be released, right

> By running the following commands:

Author: Ack, but I am not mentioning it in the docs, explicitly.

### Testing

To run tests, first build the charm as described above, then run the following

```shell
tox -e format       # update your code according to linting rules
tox -e lint         # code style
tox -e unit         # unit tests
tox -m integration  # integration tests, running on juju 3.
tox                 # runs 'format', 'lint', and 'unit' environments
```

Integration tests can be run for separate files:

```shell
tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_storage.py
```

#### Running different major versions of Juju

For integration tests, libjuju must be in-sync with the target juju version.
Make sure that the version of libjuju installed is compatible with the bootstrapped
controller version. If not, update it with:

```shell
poetry add --lock --group integration juju@<YOUR CHOSEN VERSION>
```

#### FOR DEVELOPMENT ONLY: Testing Backups In Your Local Machine

Backup testing installs microceph and, optionally, can run on AWS and GCP object stores.

> For that, pass the access / secret / service account information as env. variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup your environment, you should set the: access / secret / service account information as environment variables.
```

To run the test only against microceph:

```shell
tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py --group='microceph' # test backup service for microceph
```

And against public clouds + microceph:

```shell
SECRETS_FROM_GITHUB=$(cat <path-to>/credentials.json) tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py
```

Where, for AWS only, `credentials.json` should look like (the `IGNORE` is necessary to remove GCP):
```python

> { "AWS_ACCESS_KEY": ..., "AWS_SECRET_KEY": ..., "GCP_SECRET_KEY": "IGNORE" }

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused. Previously in the text it was said that those should be defined as environment variables. This now uses a json object.

```

> For GCP only, some additional information is needed. The pytest script runs with `boto3` and needs `GCP_{ACCESS,SECRET}_KEY` to clean up the object store; whereas OpenSearch uses the `service account` json file.

Reviewer: I don't think we support GCS at this stage. We should probably drop it.

```python

> { "AWS_SECRET_KEY": "IGNORE", "GCP_ACCESS_KEY": ..., "GCP_SECRET_KEY": ..., "GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT": ... }

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of the `"IGNORE"`, we shouldn't have to include other GCP related entries for AWS and vice-versa

### Testing

To run tests, first build the charm as described above, then run the following

```shell
tox -e format       # update your code according to linting rules
tox -e lint         # code style
tox -e unit         # unit tests
tox -m integration  # integration tests, running on juju 3.
tox                 # runs 'format', 'lint', and 'unit' environments
```

Integration tests can be run for separate files:

```shell
tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_storage.py
```

#### Running different versions of libjuju

> To try different versions of libjuju, run:

Author: Ack, added more text explaining that point

```shell
poetry add --lock --group integration,unit juju@<YOUR CHOSEN VERSION>
```

#### Testing Backups

Backup testing installs microceph and, optionally, can run on AWS and GCP object stores.
For that, pass the access / secret / service account information as env. variables.

To run the test only against microceph:

```shell
tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py --group='microceph' # test backup service
```

And against public clouds + microceph:

```shell

> SECRETS_FROM_GITHUB=$(cat <path-to>/credentials.json) tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py

Author: Ack, but that is needed for us to test locally. I added more text explaining this is development only and should be done only on your local machine

> SECRETS_FROM_GITHUB=$(cat <path-to>/credentials.json) tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py

Author: @carlcsaposs-canonical my recommendation is to always run tests locally as well. That makes our own lives easier for testing. Indeed, microceph is not installing because of that: https://pastebin.ubuntu.com/p/9JjmVQ6G9G/

> SECRETS_FROM_GITHUB=$(cat <path-to>/credentials.json) tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py

Author: Sorry, not "to always run" but to always "have the option". In any case, this is a discussion that we can take offline.

> SECRETS_FROM_GITHUB=$(cat <path-to>/credentials.json) tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py

Reviewer: It would make sense to stay consistent - given that this PR is about moving to DP workflows, we should aim to have the same UX as the rest.

> SECRETS_FROM_GITHUB=$(cat <path-to>/credentials.json) tox -e integration -- tests/integration/ha/test_backups.py

Author: Ack, going to resolve this comment. It was also due to some settings left in tox.ini. I will clean them up, if not already done.
